This is where the money rules live.
p02
Open Settings, then the Payments and Finance group.
p03
Nine pages, one list.
p04
Between them they decide how a payment is taken, how a price gets adjusted,
p05
how tax is set, and how a sale lands in accounting.
p06
Learn to spot them, because most billing questions end on one of these.
p07
Start at Payment Types.
p08
This is your tender list, the payment methods the register accepts.
p09
Three flags do the real work.
p10
Locked marks the system types you can't delete.
p11
Require Reference forces a number at the register.
p12
And Show as Bank Drop decides what counts toward the drawer drop.
p13
Now Discounts.
p14
The panels up top read the file at a glance:
p15
how many are active, how they split between dollars off and percent off.
p16
But the row that answers questions is Amount, next to Discount Type.
p17
That pair tells you fast whether a discount takes three dollars off or ten percent.
p18
Open one discount and it behaves like a service.
p19
A detail view, an Active Locations tab, the sites where it's live,
p20
and per-location overrides underneath.
p21
That's how one discount is three dollars off at one wash and two at another.
p22
We couldn't pull this exact screen from today's capture,
p23
so lean on the Services lesson as your reference until we grab it live.
p24
Look, don't save.
p25
Discount Types is the short list behind that column.
p26
Four categories, nothing more.
p27
Whatever shows under Discount Type on the list you just saw is filed from here.
p28
Surcharges are the mirror of a discount.
p29
Same idea, opposite sign.
p30
An added fee, with an amount, a code, and a taxable flag
p31
that decides whether tax rides on top of the fee.
p32
Surcharge Types carries one flag worth knowing.
p33
Disallow Discounts.
p34
Switch it on, and a discount can't stack on a ticket that already has this surcharge.
p35
That single control settles a lot of pricing arguments.
p36
Payout Percentage is a band table.
p37
Each row is a range, a start and an end, with a percentage inside it.
p38
A value drops into whichever band it lands in.
p39
Tiered, not flat.
p40
Tax Rates feeds the rest of the platform.
p41
Every rate here is what a service reaches for in its two tax slots.
p42
So when a wash rings up the wrong tax, don't start at the service.
p43
Start here, and check which rate is the default.
p44
Down to accounting.
p45
General Ledger Codes.
p46
One small catch worth remembering:
p47
the sidebar says General Ledger Codes, the page header says G-L Codes.
p48
Same page.
p49
These codes are what your exports post against,
p50
and a wrong one here is a classic month-end headache.
p51
G-L Account Codes is the partner list.
p52
Same three columns, same shape.
p53
Here's the split: G-L Codes name the ledger lines,
p54
and G-L Account Codes tie them to accounts for the export.
p55
The two work as a pair.
p56
That's the whole group.
p57
Nine pages, one sidebar.
p58
Tender in Payment Types.
p59
Price changes in Discounts and Surcharges.
p60
Tiered payouts, tax, and the two ledger lists.
p61
When a billing question comes in, you already know which page owns the answer.
p62
And you got there without touching a single setting.